What I wanted to talk about today is
The concept of a killer app and how we're going to find the killer app in
This space. It's a topic that comes up with bitcoin
Also, and one of the most common questions. I get asked is what is the killer app?
So do you have some thoughts about? [what] is the killer app in?
Ethereum?
and
Replacing bitcoin isn't the correct answer by the way
You know this is this is an interesting question
When [people] look out at the landscape of all the possible applications that might exist whether it's in Bitcoin, or ethereum?
You kind of map out what you think might be [a] space?
That's not always
The first thing that will happen you know some applications require
prerequisites they require infrastructure, or they require a large concentration of
users in a specific geography or they require an
Industry that has a lot of users all working together to adopt a technology
[you'll] get you know the same applications in the beginning of technology as you do after it's matured for a while
Think about the internet for a while and look back. I I was around in the early days of the internet
I remember in 1992 like everybody knew [that] video on demand was going to be an apple. It's a no-brainer
You don't
You don't really need a [lot] to [figure] out the video demands will be a killer app now
I remember the first video conferencing demonstration I participated in it involves two
rooms about two million pounds worth of equipment and a connection over fiber between the university of London and
[A] University in the United States
It was the culmination of a two-year project, and it was pretty much what you would do today on a skype call
so
Video on demand. Obvious, but not yet
Not going to happen anytime soon and kind of Netflix or something like that the ability to do that
Certainly not going to happen anytime soon
[so] you have to think when we're thinking about the killer app II
It's not simply the set of applications that might possibly be [implemented]. [it's] also
What can be implemented with what you have today?
[what] requires the least infrastructure investment what requires the least density of users and yet?
provides a viable solution to a real problem and
That's the question that I spend a lot of time thinking about now in bitcoin
we kind of see where that is [going] there is an intersection of
[high] [value] Cross-Border payments that are particularly difficult
Difficult because there is currency controls difficult because your government is nuts and the printing one hundred Trillion Dollar bills
difficult because
You have very high fees or low opportunities for banking
That's a sweet. Spot right and the reason it's a sweet. Spot is because it doesn't take much to be better
Like you can be slow and all you have to do is not be as slow as the banks you can be expensive
and all you have to do is not be as
Expensive as the banks and you have a viable solution to a real problem and all
It takes to adopt that solution is the sender in the recipient for this, but you don't need massive infrastructure to do that
[ok] so what is
What is in fact the killer app for?
Ethereum and
Then bitcoin we've gone off the rails and everybody's done blockchain crazy
Let them call it blockchains as the t-shirt making fun of this idea that everything is a blockchain, right?
Anything that used to be a database is now a blockchain and suddenly magical it acquires
these capabilities
Immutability Censorship resistance neutrality Borderless operation etcetera which are not really characteristics of a blockchain?
There are characteristics of specific types of block chains, but if you just take a databases, [I'll] show up some hashes in it
That was not an immutable block chain make
um
But it makes some good money for consultants. So if everything is a block chain right? So what's happening in Ethereum? Everything's a dapp!
app + D [equals] Dapp! (audience laughs)
Let's dapp this dapp that dapp the next thing let's dapp everything everything dapp, dapp the world
which is kind of the same thing and
also
It attracts all the wrong kind of attitudes the wrong kind of people
Right? The Sharks start circling they're like "there's money in the water." there' VC's throwing money at stuff
They don't understand we've got a hype tournaments the new web 2.0. Let's run for it
Let's take what we were doing before slap blockchain in front and now what we're doing is cool, and most importantly fundable
Let's take what we were doing slap dapp in front of and what we're doing is now fundable
And there's a danger there and you're seeing it already
I don't want to be too harsh on the
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (laughs)
these are not your friends [ok?] the idea that all of these enterprises are going to bring their
magnanimous attention down to your technology
and make it suddenly shine in their enterprise applications for the most part what they're interested in is forking the code and
Creating closed boring versions of it that they can sell to management and as long as you're not doing anything disruptive
They're going to ride the Ethereum pony for a while
but eventually
Mark my words
There's going to be a time [when] what you do is disruptive and interesting enough [that] they're going to say the Magic words
We're interested in the technology behind Ethereum. Dapps, not Ethereum itself
sound familiar?
Mark my words that's going to happen unless you don't really do anything interesting
But if you do that's what's going to happen so again. What is the killer app?
because it's not a dapp and
What I think it is, is the DAO
The DAO,  the DAO's dead? long live run the DAO! (laughs)
What?
What is the essence of Ethereum?
to me? it's
Smart contracts right where do people usually use contracts most contracts most contracts?
I've ever signed most contracts I've ever written are
For business-to-business interactions a I sign some contracts as a consumer
But I do far more contracts through my businesses contracts are what make businesses run
So and there's a particularly interesting aspect to that which is that
Private commercial contracts between two businesses are not subject to anybody's regulation. I can choose what jurisdiction
I want to operate in I can choose my choice of law and as long as it is an affair between my
Corporation and another corporation. It's nobody's business what we write in that contract
That's a wide open space. It doesn't offend regulators. It doesn't get into the side of business and governments
It's just kind of neutral. It's nice, and there's a particular type of contract. That's the most interesting which [is]
The very basic contract the first contract you should do in any business. What's the first contract you [should] do in any business?
articles of organization
it's
The hey partner don't screw me over and run away with all the money contract
Right it's how you make sure that the people you are forming this association this venture this
vehicle are
Going behave the way you expect them to behave. That's the first contract the corporation itself
is a contract in
That contract is the most critical contract because that's the opportunity where Ethereum can
reinvent what it means to be a corporation in the Modern world the very essence of a corporation the
Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO)
That's the killer app
It's the space that regulators don't care about for the most part
it's the space where you have the greatest freedom to invent completely new ways, systems, for humans to organize on A
massive scale
It's Ethereum's moonshot. It's
the possibility of taking this to a whole new level taking it into a moon orbit, if you like?
There's a problem with that
That is the order to moon orbit requires rocket science and writing Smart contracts [organized] corporations is
Rocket science
So, what is the essential
understanding of rocket science? it is that fundamentally there is very little difference between
a rocket and a bomb
In terms of fundamental chemistry a rocket is a very large
Exothermic reaction the difference between a rocket to the bomb is that a rocket is a controlled
Exothermic reaction where all of the output is directed in a very specific direction, right?
think of that as governance, so it's a bomb of governance right that's the difference a
Rocket is what happens when you do governance on explosives?
the problem is
The way people see the awesome power of a rocket, most of the time
[they're] really excited by the big boom
possibility the explosive side of things and this also applies the smart contracts because in Smart contracts money is the
fuel and the smart contract is governance and the rocket science of a smart contract is ensuring that the fuel of
Money that is managed by the smart contract doesn't blow up in your face
so
When you're doing rocket science is very
Disappointing when Stevie your neighbor decides to strap a lawn chair
to one hundred and fifty thousand kilograms of highly explosive fuel and
Says, "I shall conquer human spaceflight!" (audience laughs)
They don't think governance is so important! (audience laughs)
And what happens when you blow [up] that form of human spaceflight?
The problem is it will forever mar the idea of human spaceflight
From that moment on anybody who was searching for the term human spaceflight
Will go online and the first result will be a YouTube video of Stevie boy
Creating a ginormous crater in their backyard and [turning] themselves [into] Stevie [mist]
because while they have the kinetic energy
captured in [a] hundred and fifty thousand kilograms of highly explosive fuel they forgot about the governance and the
governance is the killer app it's how you take funds and
Manage them how you take the energy of a community and manage it how you reinvent the corporation
Every time you think about writing a DAO. There's this little siren call that says
We could raise a lot of money with this thing
Resist that call
Because the way you achieve
The awesomeness of a moon orbit with ethereum is by a very careful very
conservative Governance
Then iterates and matures over [a] long period of time that is a killer app that can change how we do
Corporations but in order to do that
You must make sure to put too much fuel [if] you try to build an a plus five on day one
you will make a big crater and
You'll keep doing that for as long as you decide, but the first step is moon orbit
Let's not do moon orbit. How about low earth orbit right how about getting off the launch Pad?
How about a horizontal harness engine test?
and
That's really the challenge with ethereum right now
But also the tremendous opportunity the killer app is smart contracts that we define the Modern corporation
the DAO the decentralized autonomous
Organization and if you go search for the dao, what do you find?
Stevie Boy blowing himself up into a giant Crater
so it's actually ruining the opportunity to do the killer app because
The opportunity to put a lot [of] fuel into [that] tension
[overlook] the Maturity of the governance, and what we need is a lot more work on the maturity of the governance
But to those who do that work
It's going to take 20 years to get the overnight success, but one day
That vehicle is going to go into [a] moon orbit. Thank you
you